---
layout: default
title: Bucknell Baja
category: portfolio
img1: baja/BU_Baja_2025-7955.jpeg
img2: baja/IMG_0013.jpg
img3: baja/IMG_0839.jpg
img4: baja/IMG_0433.jpg
description: |
---
SAE Baja is a national competition by the Society of Automotive Engineers. It's the sister competition of Formula Student: Baja is based off of the rally that occurs
in Baja, California. Teams of students from universities across the US compete to design and manufacture the most capable off-road race vehicle they can within certain
guidelines.

While this competition mainly attracts mechanical engineers, there are some electronics on the car that warrant a subsection of the team focused on ECE subjects. During the
2024-25 academic year, I led a group of ~10 Electrical or Computer Engineers in order to create a robust system on the Bucknell Baja car: these include a datalogger, controls
for electronic differentials, and a wiring harness responsible for engine management and killswitches. Part of my role on this team was delegating tasks to those on our
subteam, while contributing significantly to our products myself.

The perfboard that can be seen in the images is a hand-soldered datalogger that acts as a backpack on an Arduino Mega 32u4. It records position, accelerometer and
gyroscopic data, and timing information onto an SD card in a .csv format for later use. The PCB is a differential control board that utilizes an ATMEGA32u4 and a half-bridge
IC in order to take in data from differential outputs as well as driver control switches, and select the proper drive mode. The electronic differentials use a proprietary
Yamaha connector that controls the internal servo, which interacts with a rack-and-pinion to select the drive mode. We control this with the half-bridge in order to change 
drive mode and use its built-in continuity outputs to feed information into the board. I was the lead on both of these products, ending up designing the board on my own
and soldering the datalogger. 

This year in Bucknell Baja we plan to employ an ECE senior design team to take over one of these products, while our subteam continues the others. Our plans include
turning the perfboard datalogger into a PCB, and creating another revision of the differential board and producing it.
