---
layout: default
title: ECEG431- nand2tetris
category: Portfolio
img1: Screenshot from 2025-11-19 18-27-41.png
img2: Screenshot from 2025-11-19 19-05-04.png
description: |
---
ECEG 431, or Computer Systems, at Bucknell is a class based on the popularized
online project known as [nand2tetris](http://nand2tetris.org){:target="_blank"}. It involves writing and describing an entire
computer architecture piece by piece, to give an overview of each step and what
they may look like. It does so by having students create logic gates from a 
simplified hardware description language, move to assembly and writing assemblers,
all the way up to high-level, Java-like languages made for whatever implementation
one desires.

One of our projects was assigned to create some sort of interactable program
in the Java-like language to help our understanding before writing a compiler
for said language. My partner and I decided to recreate a simple version of
Dig Dug! You can learn more about that project [in my GitHub repo](https://github.com/Foster-05/nand2tetris){:target="_blank"}.

This class really fleshed out my programming skills and helped me acclimate to
accepting new languages. Over the course of the class I had to quickly adapt to
new languages, from variants of languages I already knew like Assembly, to Jack,
their simple variant of Java, a language I've never touched. Going through these
products significantly built up my skills of adapting to new languages quickly
as well as improving those I was familiar with, like Python or HDL. I used Python
to write an assembler, VM translator, and compiler. This effectively means I could
write a program in Jack, translate it to VM code by their specification, translate
that to dumbed-down assembly, and translate _that_ into machine language that
is able to run in a virtual machine we created from logic gates in HDL. Going 
through the process bottom-to-top significantly enhanced my understanding of
how larger VLSI systems employ the same ideas and can be understood using the
same properties and techniques.
